https://medium.com/naukri-engineering/avoid-lombok-use-records-to-write-cleaner-code-in-java-17-b174548a6f5f

## Hablando de Lombok

## Issues with Lombok:

There are multiple reasons why one should avoid Lombok. Two main reasons in my opinion are:

1. **Third-party dependency:** We as developers are relying on a third-party library for such trivial things. Lombok relies on community support for the library’s maintenance. If there are compatibility issues with newer Java versions or if the library becomes unsupported, it can lead to problems in your codebase.
2. **IDE Compatibility:** Lombok relies on code generation at compile time, which may not always work seamlessly with all Integrated Development Environments (IDEs). Some IDEs may not fully support Lombok features, making it difficult to navigate and understand the generated code.

The @Data annotation combines several other Lombok annotations, such as @Getter, @Setter, @EqualsAndHashCode, and @toString. We can use these annotations individually if required.

# Records

> Records are a new feature introduced in Java starting from Java 14 (as a preview feature) and officially in [Java 16](https://openjdk.org/projects/jdk/16/). Records provide a concise way to define simple classes primarily intended for encapsulating data. They are a type of class that automatically generates common methods such as constructors, `equals()`, `hashCode()`, and `toString()` based on the class's fields.

```java
public record UserRecord(String username, String email, int userId) {  
}
```

> Java internally defines three final variables and their getter methods in addition to the class-level methods such as toString, hashCode, and equals.

# Caracteristicas importantes

We can not set the value of a property of Record once initialized. All the variables are final. This means Records are **immutable**.

```java
// class (static) variable  
public static final String invalidEmailMessage = "INVALID EMAIL";  
  
// instance variable - not allowed. Will throw Error.  
public String defaultEmail = "unknown@yopmail.com";  
  
// Class function  
public static void sayMyName() {  
System.out.println("Heisenberg");  
}  
  
// instance function  
public String emailDomain() {  
return this.email.split("@")[1];  
}
```

* **Record classes can not be extended**. All Records class implicitly extends the Record class. And Java doesn’t allow multiple inheritance. Hence our Record class can not be the child of any other class.

* **Records are also by default final**. Hence we can not use them as parent class of any other class.

# Constructores

Constructor compacto para definir errores en las entradas.

```java
public UserRecord {  
	if (userId < 1) {  
		throw new IllegalArgumentException("UserId can not be less than 1");  
	}  
}
```

